Alright so lets solve this challenge.
The key to this one is realising
that because stacks are LIFO, meaning last in first out
and queues are FIFO, meaning first in first out,
if we add everything to our queue
then the queue will contain the original string
and if we push everything onto our stack
then our stack will contain the original string.
Of course we'll remove punctuation and spaces as we do this
and so once we've filled our queue
and we've filled our stack then all we have to do
is loop through the stack lets say,
and we'll pop each character of the stack
and compare it against the top element in the queue
and because the queue will return
the characters reading from left to right
and the stack will pop the characters
in the order of right to left,
we just have to, on each iteration,
pull the first item of the queue,
the item that's at the head of the queue
and pop the top character on the stack and compare them,
and if they're equal then we're good.
If on one of the iterations we pull
the head element of the queue and we pop the top character
off the stack and they're not equal,
that means we don't have a palindrome.
And so for example if we just look at the word dad
and so lets say we have a stack,
and we push D
and then we push A
and then we push D
and so our stack is gonna end up having D.A.D on it
and then, this is driving IntelliJ nuts
'cause it doesn't know what I'm doing here
'cause of all the syntax errors.
So with the queue we've add D
and then add A
and then add D
and so our queues gonna contain D.A.D
but the key here is when we pop these items from the stack
we're actually popping them in reverse order.
So in the queue this D is the first D,
so when we pull the first item of the queue
we're gonna get this D but when we pop from the stack
we're gonna get this D
and so because of LIFO behaviour the characters will be
popped from the stack in reverse order
and because of FIFO behaviour the characters will be pulled
from the queue in forward order
and so what we're gonna do is do a loop
and each time, each iteration is a loop,
we'll pull one character off the queue
and pop one character off the stack
and so for the queue we're basically reading left to right
and from the stack we're reading right to left
and so if we pull off the first character
from the queue we'll get this D
and then pop the top character
from the stack and we'll get the last D.
This would be our first iteration
and we compare them and they equal each other
and so that means so far our string is reading in the same
order from left to right as it is from right to left
and so so far we have a palindrome.
And then when we pop the next item off the stack
we'll get A and we'll pull of the queue and we'll get A,
we'll compare them, so far so good
and then finally we'll pull the last D off the queue
and we'll pop the top item on the stack
which at this point would be the first D
and they compare equal and we're done.
And so because all the characters
compared equal we have a palindrome.
On the other hand if we had, I don't know lets put D.A.D.E,
basically we have this situation
but we're gonna be when we pop,
we're pulling items from the end
and so on the very first iteration
we're gonna realise this isn't a palindrome
because we're gonna pull D off the queue
'cause we're reading from left to right
and then reading right to left
the first item we pop will be E
because that was the last one that we pushed
and we're gonna compare D against E
and opps they're not equal so this is not a palindrome.
So the key is just to realise that,
if we loop through the original string
and as we go we push items onto the stack
and we add items to the queue,
because one is LIFO and the other one FIFO,
if we then loop through again
and on each iteration we pop one item from the stack
and remove one item from the queue,
the queue is basically reading the string from left to right
and the stack is reading the string from right to left
and so if the string reads the same,
from left to right as it does from right to left
then on each iteration the character we pop from the stack
and the character we pull off the queue
should equal each other
and if they don't then we don't have a palindrome.
And so with that it mind lets go ahead
and implement the solution.
So once again I'm gonna use a LinkedList
and I'm gonna use a LinkedList
for both the stack and the queue.
So I'm gonna say character stack equals new LinkedList
and so that's our stack
and I'm gonna say LinkedList character,
and this will be my queue, equals new LinkedList character
and I'm gonna lowercase the string
so I don't have to worry about doing that
when I'm pushing and adding to the queues.
So I'll say string lowercase equals string.toLowerCase.
Okay so now I'm going to loop around
and on each iteration I'm gonna do the same thing
I did in the stacks challenge.
I'm gonna check whether the character is
between lowercase A and lowercase Z inclusive
and if it is I'm going to push it onto the stack
and add it to the queue.
So I'm gonna say for int i equals 0,
i less than lowercase.length i++.
I'm gonna get char c equals lowercase.charAt i.
If c greater than or equal to a
and c is less than or equal to z
then I'm interested in this character.
So I'm going to add it to the queue
and I'm going to add it as the last.
I could just say add but because
this is a queue I'll use add last
and I'm going to push it onto the stack.
So stack.push c.
And so when we drop out of this loop,
I removed punctuation I removed any spaces, any white space.
I've pushed all the characters
between a and z onto the stack
and I've added all the characters
between a and z onto the queue
and so now we another loop
and what we're gonna do in this loop
is just iterate through the stack until it's empty
and on each iteration we're gonna pop
one character from the stack
and we're going to remove one character from the queue
and we're gonna compare them
and the stack will be effectively reading
the string from right to left
and the queue will effectively be reading
the string from left to right
and so if on each iteration the character that we pop
and the character that we remove from the queue are equal
then we still might have a palindrome.
If we hit an instance where the character we pop from the
stack is not equal to the character we pull from the queue
then we do not have a palindrome
and so I'm gonna say while not stack.isEmpty,
if not stack.pop.equals,
queue.removeFirst
then we don't have a palindrome.
Otherwise if we make it out of the loop without returning,
then every character we pop from the stack
equaled the character we remove from the queue
and so in that case we have a palindrome
and so will return true.
It's a shorter and more elegant solution
than the one we did in the stacks challenge
but we hadn't learnt queues yet in the stacks challenge
and so that solution involved a little
more manual work I would say.
Now that we know queues, we have the more elegant solution
and if you were asked to check for a palindrome
and they didn't tell you how to do it
or they just said use a stack or something,
this is a more elegant solution.
So once again we should get true true true false and true,
so lets give this a try.
And we do, we get true true true false and true.
So that's it for queues.
I'll see you in the next section.